---
title: "Docker"
date: 2019-09-26T18:03:53+05:30
draft: false
weight: 1
---

This guide helps you set up Space Cloud via Docker.

## Prerequisites

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/install/)


## Step 1: Run Space Cloud

### Development mode

The following command runs `space-cloud` in a docker container and exposes the GraphQL and REST APIs on port `4122`:  

{{< highlight bash>}}
docker run -d -p 4122:4122 --name space-cloud -e DEV=true spaceuptech/space-cloud:latest
{{< /highlight >}}

Check if the `space-cloud` container is up and running:

{{< highlight bash>}}
docker ps
{{< /highlight >}}

> **Note:** The only difference in dev mode is that the Mission Control (admin UI of Space Cloud) doesn't require you to log in.

### Production mode

The following command runs `space-cloud` in production mode and exposes the HTTPS endpoint (port - 4126) of Space Cloud:

{{< highlight bash>}}
docker run -d -p 4126:4126 --name space-cloud \
  -v /path/to/ssl-certs:/ssl
  -e ADMIN_USER=some-admin \
  -e ADMIN_PASS=some-pass \
  -e ADMIN_SECRET=some-secret \
  -e SSL_CERT=/ssl/some-ssl.crt \
  -e SSL_KEY=/ssl/some-ssl.key \
  spaceuptech/space-cloud:latest
{{< /highlight >}}

Here, `ADMIN_USER` and `ADMIN_PASS` are the credentials to login into Mission Control (Admin UI), whereas `ADMIN_SECRET` is the JWT secret used to authenticate requests made via Mission Control.

> **Note:** Check out [this guide](/getting-started/deployment/distributed) to run Space Cloud in distributed mode. 

### Changing ports

Space Cloud only has two ports - HTTP and HTTPs. The HTTP port is available by default on `4122`, and you can change it by passing the environment variable of `PORT`.

**Example:** 
{{< highlight bash>}}
docker run -d -p 8000:8000 -e PORT=8000 --name space-cloud spaceuptech/space-cloud:latest
{{< /highlight >}}

Space Cloud calculates the HTTPs port by adding 4 to the HTTP port. Hence the default value of HTTPs port is `4126`.

### Providing existing config file
You can tell Space Cloud to take an existing config file that you may have rather than creating a new one. For that you need to attach a volume to the docker container of Space Cloud and pass the `CONFIG` environment variable. Here's how you can do it:

{{< highlight bash>}}
docker run -d -p 4122:4122 --name space-cloud \
  -v /path/to/config.yaml:/config/config.yaml
  -e CONFIG=/config/config.yaml \
  spaceuptech/space-cloud:latest
{{< /highlight >}}

## Step 2: Configure Space Cloud

If you exec into docker container of Space Cloud, you can see a `config.yaml` file generated by Space Cloud in the home directory.

Space Cloud needs this config file to function. The config file is used to load information like the database to be used, its connection string, security rules, etc. 

Space Cloud has it's own Mission Control (admin UI) to configure all of this quickly. 

**Open Mission Control**

Head over to `http://localhost:4122/mission-control` or `https://localhost:4126/mission-control` to open Mission Control depending on which port you have exposed.

> **Note:** Replace `localhost` with the address of your Space Cloud if you are not running it locally. 


## Next Steps

Awesome! We just started Space Cloud using Docker. Next step would be to [set up a project](/getting-started/setting-up-project/) to use Space Cloud in your preferred language.

Feel free to check out various capabalities of `space-cloud`:

- Perform database [queries](/essentials/queries)
- [Mutate](/essentials/mutations) data
- [Realtime](/essentials/subscriptions) data sync across all devices
- Manage files with ease using [File Storage](/essentials/file-storage) module
- [Authenticate](/auth/authentication) your users
- Write [custom business logic](/essentials/remote-services)
- [Secure](/auth/authorization) your apps

